Replication:
	geographically close -> reduce latency
	increase availablity.
	increase read throughput

	three algorithms to replicating chanes between nodes:
		single-leader
		multi-leader
		leaderless replication

	What is a leader:	one of the replicas is designated as leader (master, primary)
						clients first send request to leader
						leader first writes new data to local storage
			followers: (read replicas, slaves, hot standbys):
						leader also sneds the data change to followers repliation log/change stream
						process writes in the same order

						read from anywhere, write only to leader

						synchronous: the leader waits until follower 1 has confirmed that it received the write before reporting success to the user, and before making the write visible to other clients

							followers guarantee to be consistent

							block all writes and wait until recover



						asynchronous: the leader sends the message, but doesn’t wait for a response from the follower.

						semi-sunchronous: one followers is synchronous, the others are asynchronous

						set up now followers:
							1. take a consistent snapshot of leader
							2. copy snapshot to new follower
							3. requtsts all changes after snapshot
							4. caught up


					follower failure: Catch-up recovery: keeps a log of the data changes from leader

					leader failure: failover
								1. tell it is failed by timeout
								2. consensus to choose a new leader
								3. reconfigure, old leader is follower
							old leader's unreplicated writes (asynchronous) be discarded
						

	replication methods:
		1. logs every write request (statement)
			replace any nondeterminstic function calls -> fixed return value. 

		2. Write-ahead log (WAL) shipping
			append-only log sent to followers
			log describes data on a very low level-> no version difference allowed

		3. Logical (row-based) log replication
			a sequence of records describing writes to database tables at the granularity of a row

		4. Trigger-based replication
			move replication up to the application layer: trigger: log change to a separate table
	

	read-scaling architecture: increase capacity by adding more followers;
			only work with asynchronous replication: 
			may have replication lag

			issue: lost my own write on the follower
			solution: read-after-write consistency 
